[WHOOSH]
[RAIN FALLING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It's mid-September, and
these Indian monsoon rains have
lasted a month
longer than usual.
[THUNDER CLAP]
It's not what I expected for
my second motorcycle journey
into the Himalayas with my guru.
On our first journey, I
didn't even know how to ride,
but faced the fear of death.
And I've come of age.
Now, together with
my teacher, we'll
take a group on what's
more than an adventure.
It's a pilgrimage.
Sheer cliffs, road killer
traffic, high altitude hiking,
all to reach four
sacred Himalayan peaks
in search of inner freedom.
But these monsoon rains have
been washing out villages,
destroying the
bridges and roads that
lead to the four sacred peaks.
But every adventure,
every pilgrimage
has its challenges,
especially when
we're seeking
something as precious
and elusive as freedom.
>> Whatever world we inhabit,
we start building myths
and symbols and start giving
meaning to things that they
don't have.
And it takes deep courage
to even pay attention to it.
How am I part of
a little bubble?
And how am I wasting my life
trying to maintain that bubble?
So one has to ask
oneself, why would I not
alter-- why would I not alter
this world that I inhabit?
Why would I not pop
out of this bubble?
How am I being enslaved
by the world I inhabit?
Am I the world or
the world is me?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[HORN HONKS]
This is not a journey
to feel better.
Do you understand?
You come here to transcend.
[BIRDS CHIRPING]
[MUSIC AND CHANTING]
>> The base camp for our
journey is Rishikesh, India,
where I've been coming yearly
for the last nine years.
I consider it my second
home, and the world
considers it the
birthplace of yoga.
We're nestled in the
foothills of the Himalayas
and right along the banks of
the holy and mighty Ganga River.
It's a place of
ashrams, of yogis,
that only in recent years, as
this bloom of yoga and spirit
has spread across
the world, has become
a bustling place of tourism, a
place of commerce, pilgrimage,
adventure, and a hotbed
for those seeking truth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
When I come to
India, it's to study
with my teacher and our
leader on this pilgrimage,
Anand, who although
younger than I,
possesses the
wisdom of the sages.
He grew up here, on
the lap of his guru,
when Rishikesh was just
a small, small town.
Leopards, elephants,
deep jungle,
just the bells of the ashrams,
and rarely the sound of a car
or a honk.
[HORN HONKS]
>> Look at these mango trees.
I have to climb up here
and sleep sometimes.
Climb up on top.
>> You sleep?
>> Yeah, I sleep on the branch.
You've never done it?
>> No.
Do you hang something?
>> No, you sleep.
You go up and then
you let your legs hang
on one side and your
arms and you go to sleep.
[LAUGHS]
>> And so your chest
is on the branch?
>> Yeah, your chest
in on the branch.
Have you ever slept on a tree?
>> No, never.
In one sense, there's
this deep tradition,
walking with guru and student
on these paths that have been
walked for thousands of years.
But Anand has always been a
little more radical, modern,
adventurous, and some
might say even too risky.
He had a Vedic
prophecy that he'd die
in an accident in his late 20s.
But despite that, we rode
over the highest pass.
Some might also say that
I, too, am too risky.
Two years ago, I had
never ridden a bike
and went on a trip with
Anand and seven others
over the highest road in
the world, the highest pass.
And basically, learned how
to ride in India amidst
the altitudes, the
snows, and the traffic.
And for myself, I have this
passion and this desire
to transform, to walk
deep into the Himalayas,
to motorcycle again through this
adventurous traffic and cliffs
and see what is just inside me
that is dying, dying to die.
Dying to crack open.
What part of me wants
to relinquish and show
the light that has
been saying, hey, hey.
What about me?
This is who I am, yeah?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The eight riders
and eight passengers
will arrive tomorrow.
Most are new to India,
to Anand, and some
are even new to riding.
They'll get the exact
trip details when we meet,
but they all know
we're in for something
more than a yoga class,
more than a wisdom talk,
and more than a
motorcycle adventure.
It's a real quest to
four sacred sites that
will each reveal to us
aspects of freedom, Kedarnath,
Tungnath, Badrinath, and Hemkund
Sahib and its Hidden Valley
of the Flowers.
We get there through a mix of
road killer motorcycle traffic,
washed out roads, high
altitude hiking, all while
being pushed by a guru.
Pushed to go inside
and pushed to go deep,
so it's fitting that this
pilgrimage begins here
at the deep and powerful
Himalayan-fed Ganga River.
Which, much like our journey,
is incredibly sacred,
yet incredibly dangerous.
[RUSHING WATER]
>> And then they come here.
They see the Ganga.
They forget that she is
also a fierce mother, eh?
So they think, oh.
So they get so excited.
They think it's a part-- becomes
part of a religious thing,
right?
So they go and they
dip and they get
so excited that they are
in the Ganga, you know,
which is the
epitome of Hinduism.
And then the mother takes
them, and then she's
not a mother anymore.
She's a witch.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> So it doesn't take long for
a mother to turn into a witch.
But that's human life.
She's a mother
until she's an idea.
But the moment she
becomes reality,
she can turn into a
witch in a moment.
But to me, she's
always a mother.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I don't think I'm going to
swim across the Ganga like last
year.
The river is really, really high
from all this flooding, so--
Anand was talking about jumping
off the bridge into the Ganga
and then swimming
across, but it's not
something I want to do.
And so the monsoons have lasted
over a month later than normal,
not only making the Ganga
flood, but causing problems
throughout the hillsides,
the towns, and our road
to the first sacred peak.
>> [SPEAKING HINDI]
31 people dead.
12 injured, 29 disappeared.
Still not found.
>> Because the road went?
Or was this through a village?
>> No, it's just the whole
cloudburst and washed away
a village.
[SPEAKING HINDI]
>> So the road just--
>> Midnight.
At midnight, the cloudburst
happened and it--
wow.
Wow.
That's so many
cloudbursts in one season.
And cloudburst
happens and it just
pours down, like [BLOWS OUT].
Yeah.
>> A lot of rain.
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It just washes away things.
It's short but massive, so
it just washes away stuff.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> So the road to the
first peak, Kedarnath,
is experiencing cloudbursts
and flash floods.
It's clear this isn't a
journey for beginners.
But the first rider to
arrive is just that.
She learned how to ride a
motorcycle just six weeks ago.
>> Soon as I saw the film, I
raised my hand and told Adam,
I've got to go.
But like Adam, I didn't know
how to ride a motorcycle.
And so the fears that
have been coming up
came up while I was on the
motorcycle the very first day.
I scratched up my arm.
I got dismissed.
I fell three times.
I smashed into a wall.
But I knew I needed to
go, so I didn't quit.
>> Look at that.
Oh, my God.
I'm impressed.
[LAUGHS]
>> I'm really looking
forward to it.
I leave in less than 12 hours.
Like, less than 12 hours,
I'm going to be on the plane
to the Himalayas.
And I just feel like,
man, this is just-- this
is going to change my life.
This is going to change--
it's like changing
my fingernail polish, except
it's going to be permanent.
[LAUGHS] I'm so excited.
[SNAPS]
Ciao!
[BELLS RING AND PEOPLE CHATTER]
>> I lived on the
streets for two years.
I had an overdose
in an abandoned van.
And as I was dying, I was able
to see that we have a choice.
So when I hear the voice that
told me to come on this trip,
I don't take it for granted.
I had a lot of good
reasons not to go.
I've never even been on the
back of a motorcycle, so--
it was my first time driving it.
Is that what you would say?
And it's my first
time being on one.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi, Viv.
>> Hi, Mom.
>> What do you think about
me and Daddy going to India?
>> Awesome.
>> 12 years, I've
never done anything.
And also, 12 years, we've
never done anything together.
Like we haven't gone on a
trip together or anything.
This is the first time.
There's a huge gap, yeah.
I want things different.
I want joy in our house.
I want love.
I want a lot of things
that aren't really there.
So a little bit
of a last chance.
>> For us to be together,
possibly rekindle some of that
flame that we had before
we had our three kids.
And then, yeah, for me,
like I said, the Himalayas.
What more needs to be said?
>> This is for our family.
It's not just for me.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I mean, I'm back in India.
How could I not be having
a good time, right?
Yeah, this is my eighth
time to India, yeah.
In the last three years.
Yeah, I have a lot of doubts.
And I'm sure a lot of people
have these same kind of doubts.
You wonder if your life is
going in the right direction
sometimes.
And it's like, to
some degree, you
start to feel like you're
questioning yourself.
It's not necessarily a mid-life
crisis that I'm going through,
but it's a midlife change.
And it's difficult sometimes.
You start questioning your
moves and your motives.
>> My father comes from
the island of Malta.
They call him Falcon.
He's a gangster,
retired gangster.
But I know the darkness.
My mother is an angel.
She's from the United States.
So I have a great mixture.
I know the darkness, but
I choose the light, right?
And both have-- both
my mother and my father
have taught me and rooted
the concept of God and love
within my heart, no
matter where it came from.
So that strong
foundation of love,
both from my mother
and my father,
really has helped me
travel all over the world.
>> And so all the riders have
begun to arrive to the Sattva
Centre, just 10 kilometers
outside of Rishikesh.
Here to gather and meet with
Anand to begin our journey.
>> So welcome.
This journey will be
a metaphor for life.
You know?
We are all good people, mostly
under good circumstances.
But when circumstances
turn, that's
the real model of human
being shows up, right?
When things are not
the way you want them.
So the journey, we
take as a pilgrimage.
Pilgrimage is to truth.
Now, to the first place we
are going to is Kedarnath.
Kedarnath is the
Valley of Shiva, which
Shiva is the master of death.
Of annihilation, of
[SPEAKING HINDI],,
of the outsider,
of the crazy one.
So I always say,
if you have never
been called crazy in your life,
you have never really lived.
[LAUGHTER]
It begins where all
that is unreal ends.
So that's where we go first,
is the Valley of Shiva.
>> To get to Kedarnath,
it's a two-day ride.
Then eventually, a straight-up
hike traversing over 5,000 feet
in just 13 kilometers,
where we'll
reach the Shiva Temple,
the Temple of Death,
at 12,000 feet.
From there, we'll
ride to Tungnath.
Tungnath means gap.
Specifically, that power
available in the space between.
The quiet moments.
In that gap, we reveal
our true potential.
The journey continues
to Badrinath.
This is where mystical yogis
hibernate for the whole winter.
It's here we find the temple
of Naryana, the sustainer.
This is the vigilance
and the continuity
needed to maintain
awareness, especially
when old programs and old
shackles come darting back in,
no matter where you are.
And to get to the last
peak, Hemkund Sahib,
we first hike in at night to
a tiny village, then journey
through the Hidden
Valley of the Flowers.
And eventually, on the
last day that it's open,
we'll make an intense hike up
to 15,000 feet to Hemkund Sahib,
and a dip in
near-freezing waters.
This last peak represents deep
union, the lack of separation,
the dissolving of
the individual,
and the merging
with the oneness.
>> And all that's left
is just the truth.
All that's left is you.
The true you, not the facade
that we have built up.
Not the accumulated
sense of self.
Not just constantly struggling
and trying to manage a facade.
>> My whole identity
was my profession,
my status as a lawyer.
And I realized that that's how
I viewed myself, as a lawyer,
and that was my only identity.
I wanted to experience
something more in my life, what
a human being really is.
So it's kind of scary,
and most of my peers,
they don't know what
I'm talking about.
>> We'll have two preparation
days and two practice rides
here in Rishikesh to help us
tune in to this shocking chaos
of India.
The wet, rocky,
pothole-filled roads
that we'll be riding
on using street bikes,
single-cylinder,
500-cc Royal Enfields.
So all are excited
for this first test,
but Elle is finding it not
as easy as she thought.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Why motorcycle
in the Himalayas?
Peace, love, and motorcycles.
I love motorcycles.
And my whole life, what
I've asked for is peace.
And it didn't happen
for me for 40 years.
In my adult life and in my
life that's going to matter,
peace was never part of it.
And that's really--
I've just started coming
into that peace in my life,
and I want it to expand.
I want all areas of my
life to be at peace.
And really, that's what
I'm following here.
And I think that's
what's going to happen.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And we're headed
down the road.
And as you recall,
school was just let out.
And so I pulled over and
picked up one of the kids.
And he hopped on the back and I
took him down into his village
further down the road.
That was a real nice experience.
>> Ken is a successful
businessman,
but spirituality is
something totally new to him.
>> I wouldn't I walked away
from the meditation experience
my first time with some
heightened sense of awareness.
I've clearly got a long way
to travel on that route,
but it's fascinating to me.
I'm anxious to
continue to learn more.
>> [SPEAKING HINDI]
[MONKEYS CHATTER]
>> Oh, it's not over.
Don't even think for one second.
It's not over.
We're just easing
into this thing, OK?
>> You're a brave man, Mario.
>> And it's not just Elle who's
easing into the chaos of India.
There are many female
passengers we'll
get to throughout
the ride, one of whom
left her three-year-old son
at home for the first time.
>> It's important for
him to have a role model
in the feminine that's just
as strong as the masculine.
Hence why I chose
this, because it's
a little absurd from a
mother point of view.
[LAUGHS]
And I love that.
I love that it's way
out of the box and it
totally freaks out
everybody that I talk to.
And I didn't even tell
my parents that I came.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> This area is probably the
only flat and relatively calm
road that I've seen
for hundreds of miles.
So Fred, who's 75 years
old and just acclimatizing
to this country, thought
it best to wait until now
to begin his first practice
ride here in India.
>> Go on the bike, yeah?
[ENGINE RUMBLES]
[SQUEAK]
[CLICK]
[ENGINE RUMBLES]
>> Maybe we tie this?
>> Yeah.
>> It'll stop the bleeding.
You've got to wear
jacket, even if it's hot.
>> Yeah.
>> And you can't drive
on the right side.
You've got to
drive on your left.
>> Got it.
Can't drive on that side.
Forgot about that.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> I'm concentrating
on the bike.
>> So Fred was driving on
the wrong side of the road.
And due to the 95-degree
heat, didn't wear
any of his protective gear.
But to his credit, he decides
to hop back on the bike
and give it another shot.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> He's ridden before, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Maybe he just needs to
get a feel for the bike.
>> He's got the feel.
>> Yeah.
>> I love his spirit, though.
Amazing spirit, eh?
>> Yeah.
Got right back on.
You've got to love that.
>> Eh?
>> After crashing like
that, he got right back on.
>> Right back on.
>> Arm's all bloody.
>> And though it's good
that Fred is confident,
this is just a practice ride
on some of the flattest roads.
It's nothing in
comparison to what
we'll see ahead on the monsoon,
mud-filled, flooded roads.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> They always say that only the
truth of who you are will set
you free.
When you really begin to
ask yourself, who am I,
you start to really
become aware that there
is a part of you
which is conditioned,
that part of you which
has a beginning, a middle,
and an end.
A part of you which is part
of your culture, a part of you
which has been conditioned
by your circumstances,
by your family, by your
religion, by your childhood,
by all of that.
A lot of times, we start
believing that's who we are.
I am because of that.
But that's a victim mentality.
The invitation is not to get to
that sense of accomplishment.
Of course that's a great
adventure, you know?
There's a part of us
which enjoys that.
We cannot deny that part of us.
That's a pleasure principle.
But we cannot create
a myth around it.
The invitation, the
real invitation,
is to go to the
truth of who we are.
Truth of who we are,
which is not a stagnant.
You cannot come to that truth
and say, oh, this is it.
It will never be, this is it.
It is always evolving and
expanding and showing you
it's a constantly
evolving in space.
That's the whole point
of us coming together,
is really to really come to
that space of who I am so
that we can really take that
quantum leap out of whatever
the bubble and the
world we inhabit.
To come to the
truth of who we are,
and that's the most
powerful thing.
And that's the only thing
which will liberate us.
>> Did you guys happen to go
by that other accident too?
>> No.
There's another accident?
>> Oh, yeah. it's
blocked both ways.
Some fucking dude
is really hurt.
They've got the ambulance there.
>> Shut up.
>> No, I'm serious.
It's right after the first turn.
>> Oh, my God.
Go, go, go!
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's growing
concern for Ryan,
who for years has
suffered from seizures.
And recently, he had a seizure
while riding his motorcycle,
resulting in a
terrible accident.
>> In 2006, I was
in an accident.
Fell through some scaffold
at a friend of mine's place.
Hit my chin on the end tube.
Broke my jaw in four places.
Had a few seizures as a
result. So coming right
ahead on my motorcycle, on the
way home, loved those turns.
Positive I wasn't doing
160 kilometers an hour
through it or anything.
But anyways, took a seizure on
the way through those turns.
End-for-ended my bike
a couple of times.
Broke the end off
my collarbone here.
Broke my collarbone
here, a couple of ribs.
I was pretty beat up.
I was having seizures on
a fairly regular basis
after the accident, and he
took my license away from me
for about a year.
And July 16, he deemed me
well enough to have it back.
So here I am.
Yeah, just in time.
Everything falls into place.
Yeah.
Ask the universe and it
will be given to you, right?
[ENGINES RUMBLING]
>> Day one, we got
caught in the dark.
I couldn't see 10
yards in front of me.
It was like going into
the great void itself.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Last night, the dark
was a little trippy.
We would never choose to
go on a bike ride at night
without a headlight.
>> Anytime there was
traffic coming towards me,
I could hardly see anything.
>> But we managed
for a short while,
until we came fairly
close, head on, to a truck.
[HORN HONKS]
>> And I mean, I was like--
[SPUTTERS]
Cars coming so
close to each other.
Sheep, cows, just
the whole experience.
It was intense.
[RIDERS CHATTERING]
>> No, I was looking for you.
>> Yeah, Kim and Mario.
>> Somebody lost these.
Can I just give them
to you and you--
>> Ryan and Mario.
>> Ryan doesn't have a light,
so he was going to follow--
he wanted to follow someone.
[HORN HONKS]
>> Yeah, we'll see.
>> When was the last you rode?
>> 1967?
>> That's the last
time you rode?
>> Oh!
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
>> 1967?
>> Because I haven't had a bike.
>> That's the last time
you rode, was in 1967?
>> Yeah, I sold my bike.
>> Wow.
I thought you rode,
like-- since 1967?
>> Yeah.
>> Good job, sir.
[LAUGHTER]
>> He wins an award.
[QUIET CHEERS AND APPLAUSE]
>> Good job.
Amazing.
Great heart.
>> It was just something
I wanted to do.
I mean, I had no
hesitation at all.
I was just hoping
that I'd be accepted.
>> Later that night, Ryan
and Mario finally arrive,
after Anand ventured out
to find them in the dark.
[ENGINE SPUTTERS]
>> Boy.
Yeah, we were--
>> That's what
finally stopped us.
>> Yeah.
>> We came--
>> Pretty close.
>> Pretty much face
to face with one.
Like, yeah, no.
I think we're done, done
driving in the dark.
>> Yeah.
>> Right.
Right.
>> All right.
Is it time to eat?
>> Yeah.
>> Cool.
>> Very good.
How's the new ride?
>> Huh?
>> How's the new ride?
>> This one?
I like it.
Yeah?
>> Everybody likes this one.
>> Does it work better
with the lights on or off?
>> Off.
>> Yeah?
[LAUGHTER]
>> Yeah, so Anand decides
to follow up the lights off.
>> Teaching me a lesson, right?
>> Right?
>> No!
>> Said to teach me a lesson.
[LAUGHTER]
>> No, I was not teaching you
a lesson, because Mario came.
And he was saying,
oh, it was very tough.
You don't understand.
I just-- OK, I
just wanted to see.
I just wanted to
check how it was.
[LAUGHTER]
Ryan's like, he's trying
to teach me a lesson.
[LAUGHTER]
>> I was-- oh, no.
No.
>> [LAUGHS]
>> Thank you for coming, OG.
And Anand.
>> Peace, love, and motorcycles.
>> So thankfully, there
was no seizure from Ryan.
But the craziness
of nighttime driving
has signaled a warning
throughout the riders,
with already Mario,
Jen, and Fred injured.
And from what we saw of
the riding ability of Elle
and Fred, one
wouldn't expect them
to get very far on this road
without accident, injury,
or having to be sent home.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Life is far greater
than our expectations.
Thankfully so.
My master used to say
that if life turned out
the way human beings
thought it would,
we would be in big trouble.
People would be
falling off the edges,
because they expected if
you walked far enough,
you would fall off
the edge of the Earth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THUNDER CLAP]
>> And he lost it in the water.
And his handlebar turned
right around, two guys, again.
And he went right
over the handlebars.
>> If I try to stop, that's
when I have problems.
So if I keep going forever and
ever and ever, and I just die,
then fuck it.